We just looked at two examples of the work done and the work done by constant forces I can't emphasize
this enough guy so constant forces were gravity.
This applied force.
Maybe the work done by the electric field or by the electric force between parallel plates.
Now if you think about it now when you do work like in this case my applied force did 150 miles of work.
What we say now is that when there is energy put into the system we say that at the end we have stored
some potential energy in the system so stored some potential
energy.
We now say that this 10 kg of 10 kg mass has gravitational potential energy.
That's what we say right here right.
We say there is rather Asian traditional potential energy and you have potential energy when something
did work.
We did 150 miles of work.
OK so the amount of potential energy that we have our final potential energy that we had usually typically
use the letter you for this guy was equal to again the force was M.G. and the height was H.
OK.
But this was really the work that was done by this force to lift the block.
Now you may have seen this equation before for gravitational potential energy
the energy of mass.
That is a certain height above the ground for example.
And that's how much work was done in order to lift this mass.
So now if I go back to the electric field example well the same concept applies.
I would say that we did how many jewels of work we ended up doing 20 jewels of work in order to move
a to cool ohm charge all the way to the top.
Well in other words once it's at the top right here in this top position I would say we have stored
some potential energy except in this case we're going to call it electrical potential energy
write this down.
It's very very important because work was done
work was done on the charge on the system.
So therefore now I'm storing some electrical potential energy into the system.
In this case the amount of potential energy that I've stored into the system again it was the force
this was the charge multiplied by the field and multiplied by the distance D.
And notice I had a positive number over here for my final potential energy and that was equal to 20
joules that's how much potential energy I have in the system right now.